Overall:

This project is inspired by Meshtastic, and my frustration with the limitations of it for robotics. I want to do much more than send messages, and I want my project to provide a foundation and a quick bootstrap for many use cases that all have overlapping needs.
I do not want to require a cloud service or subscription, though I might be ok with providing options.
The goal of this project is to bring a wifi-enabled iot device onto a wifi network, provision the device further depending on hardware, developer project goals, and user selections, and then offer a best fit boilerplate UI from a library of frontend templates that broadly cover most use cases.

AI:
It is a priority to keep files manageable from both human and AI practical points of view.
Anything that is "mature" and not likely to see much change in the future needs to be considered for packaging up in some modular way.
Keep things neat and compartmentalize in a way that allows us to develop new features without drowning the AI in code that doesn't need to be edited.
I want to be able to feed the AI no more than 3 files and have 90% likelihood of getting a correct response back.
Comments can be super helpful for more arcane portions of code, but they need to be concise and should not be redundant to what is already obvious from the readme, serial log and telemetry, function names, or @params descriptions.
Sometimes a comment makes more sense if translated to one of those other forms, especially if it results in useful reporting of what the controller is doing.
Every function should have every @param filled out.

Actions need to be as independent as possible from graphical UI. So if for some reason the LCD or webpage is not working, the rest of the program works fine.

Use cases:
realtime control like an RC tank.
Control one device from another, either directly or through a gateway.
Arrange and send sequences of commands from the user, which are then interpreted by the device.
I might want a chicken coop door controller that is entirely self contained but can send status updates periodically to home assistant.
Control the device from one of the mainstream smarthome platforms like homeassistant, google, or amazon.
Control the device from a custom unity app.
All of these use cases have to be built on top of a common list of features that are either not available, not reliable, not user friendly, or not packaged together for ESP32 and esp-idf as a generic starting point.

File System: We use littlefs. Do not use SPIFFS, it is deprecated.
Framework: We use esp-idf with component folder. Platformio is mostly used as a developer interface and should not be used for managing libraries.
Config: We have a central config file for globals that should be baked in by the compiler. There may need to be a separate config in the filesystem for dynamic global settings such as wifi config, calibration, user settings, and more.

Display: This project is built around the ability to generate QR codes if an LCD is available on SPI or i2c. If the display is not working you can always get connected old school by searching for the AP and typing the password.
However, IP addresses and similar technical things that are meant for computers to read, should be presented in a QR code in addition to english.
Therefore ESP32 variants with lcd or epaper backpacks 64px tall or bigger are prioritized. Your phone or pc becomes the frontend so we don't have to have a fancy display on the controller.

Comms: The ability to serve up a connection setup page is a core feature.
Once a wifi connection is made to the device from a phone or pc, we can enable and provision other types of communication more easily.
Default is to try to add the device to a local Wifi network and then connect to the device that way from then on.
Depending on the hardware, we could also try to set up BLE, Bluetooth, or LoRa (either join an existing network or use some custom protocol)
The type of connections being used sets many other constraints which must be tracked all the way through the firmware. For example, LoRa has legal rules such as airtime limits, and which frequency is allowed depending on country (see meshtastic for example of implementation)

Updates: The ability to detect available updates, then flash new firmware and local webpage files from the internet is a core feature. Prefer to keep user settings intact, and warn the user when that is not possible.

Frontend: Right now the frontend UI is responsive vanilla javascript and html css with few or no dependencies.
The only real requirements are that it doesn't overwhelm the microcontroller, works reliably, and doesn't require an internet connection to load.
We need to add the ability to switch between types of frontends easily depending on what the use case is. We need to store the use case in the user settings, which determines which UI is displayed.

Health monitor: detects and reports problems that are not already readily apparent from the espidf, libraries, or compiler.
Attempts to anticipate all potential issues that cannot be resolved by improved coding, and warn the user or the developer as appropriate.
Examples like battery or wifi strength low, peripherals not functioning, bad quality connection, maybe javascript/html errors.
Every function should report what it is doing to serial monitor, with some config flags to turn categories of debug on or off.
If for some reason the LCD screen (for example) is disconnected or missing, the rest of the firmware should make a best effort to function without it.
Keep a list of peripherals to scan for on i2c and spi. (typically if esp32 does not come with an LCD I would use i2c to connect one)
Make decisions based on whether each lcd or sensor is found. TTGO v1 for example has a power management chip, a gps, lora, onboard temp sensor, lcd, etc.

QR codes: We currently have 3 qr codes. one to connect to AP, one for the setup page address, and one for the index page address.
once we are all the way connected to a network, detect if the user is connected to the device, such as through the index.html or through some UDP. If they are not connected, display a QR code in addition to the IP address. get rid of "connected to" as that is implied by showing IP.
If for some reason the user cannot scan the QR code, a human readable equivalent needs to be displayed on the other half of the screen.

Research Wifimanager (the arduino library) and how it implemented everything. Are there lessons learned that we can implement for this project? Are there features we should imitate or improve on?

What major aspects of coding projects are we weak on? For example, we haven't discussed whether and how much unit testing or automated builds we need.

Is websocket the best approach to control an RC vehicle in realtime, or should we be thinking about optimized UDP?

What variants of the ESP32, or alternatives with similar price and performance, should be designed for, besides the one I have already specified?
For example, I have a bunch of TTGO v1 boards and some newer HTIT-Tracker heltec boards. do we need separate HAL files for each? can esp-idf handle all these, or is the HTIT incompatible?
